### _Project 5: So Long - Fifth project for the formation of software engineers at school 42 São Paulo_

---
- The main function is the start location of a program's execution that controls the execution of calls to other functions in the program.
- In our case, we will use 2 internal parameters in the main function. This parameters are:
    - `argc`: number of parameters to be received. (./so_long and file.ber = 2).
    - `argv`: name of the parameters to be received. (./so_long and file.ber).
- We have a structure called `t_game`. It is a structure that calls all other structures in the game. It is a structure that facilitates the creation of the game.
- The function `verify_argc`, checks if the number of argumentspassed in the terminal is two.
- The function `init_vars`, initializes all the variables that we will use in the project. It is a verification function.
- The function `read_map`, checks whether the map passed as an argument in the terminal is valid or not.
    - `argv[1]`: archive name.
    - `&game`: all game data.
- The function `init_game`, prepares the images for later rendering with another function (render_game).
- The function `mlx_hook`, is a function that allows us to concatenate events. For example, we render the game, press a key, a new render appears, and this continues until the game is over. It's similar to an event-specific loop. 
The parameters are:
    - `1º`: game window
    - `2º`: event
    - `3º`: mask
    - `4º`: generic function
    - `5º`: game data.
    
- The events and masks used were
    - `event 12`: print on the screen.
    - `event 3`: press the key.
    - `event 17`: destroy window.
    - `mask 1L << 15`: screen exposure
    - `mask 1L << 1`: key trade.
    - `mask 0L`: no event mask.

```c
int	main(int argc, char **argv)
{
	t_game	game;

	verify_argc(argc);
	init_vars(&game);
	read_map(argv[1], &game);
	init_game(&game);
	mlx_hook(game.vars.win, 12, 1L << 15, render_game, &game);
	mlx_hook(game.vars.win, 3, 1L << 1, key_press, &game);
	mlx_hook(game.vars.win, 17, 0L, exit_click, &game);
	mlx_loop(game.vars.mlx);
	return (0);
}
```

<h1></h1>

- The function `init_vars`, initializes all the variables that we will use in the project. It is a verification function.
    - `game->count_move`: we will use it in the future to print the amount of player movements.
    - `game->map.collectible`: we will use it in the future to check the amount of collectibles we will have in the game.
    - `game->map.exit`:  we will use it in the future to check the amount of exits we will have in the game.
    - `game->map.cont_player`: we will use it in the future to check the amount of players we will have in the game.

```c
void	init_vars(t_game *game)
{
	game->count_move = 0;
	game->map.collectible = 0;
	game->map.exit = 0;
	game->map.cont_player = 0;
}
```

<h1></h1>

- The function `init_game`, prepares the images for later rendering with another function (render_game).
    - `mlx_init()`: before creating any windows, we need to use this function.
    - `mlx_new_window`:this function returns a pointer that allows us to modify the height, width and title of the window.
        - `game->vars.mlx`: our pointer.
        - `game->map.count_column * 64`: modify width.
        - `game->map.count_line * 64`: modify height.
        - `"So Long"`: title of the window.
    - `mlx_xpm_file_to_image`: convert our .xpm file to .png.
        - `game->vars.mlx`: our pointer
        - `HERO_R`: relative path.
        - `&game->hero.width`: in this case, hero's width.
        - `&game->hero.height`: in this case, hero's heigh.

```c
void	init_game(t_game *game)
{
	game->vars.mlx = mlx_init();
	game->vars.win = mlx_new_window(game->vars.mlx, \
	game->map.count_column * 64, game->map.count_line * 64, "So Long");
	game->hero.img = mlx_xpm_file_to_image(game->vars.mlx, HERO_R, \
	&game->hero.width, &game->hero.height);
	game->floor.img = mlx_xpm_file_to_image(game->vars.mlx, FLOOR, \
	&game->floor.width, &game->floor.height);
	game->wall.img = mlx_xpm_file_to_image(game->vars.mlx, WALL, \
	&game->wall.width, &game->wall.height);
	game->coins.img = mlx_xpm_file_to_image(game->vars.mlx, COIN, \
	&game->coins.width, &game->coins.height);
	game->exit.img = mlx_xpm_file_to_image(game->vars.mlx, EXIT, \
	&game->exit.width, &game->exit.height);
}
```